Welcome back I'm here with my instructors
for this week, Mike and Shelby.
Last week you learned about transformer
networks, which is really a key foundation
for large language models, as well as
the Genitive AI project Life Cycle.
And this week there's
lots more to dive into,
starting with instruction tuning
of large language models.
And then later how to carry out
fine-tuning in an efficient way.
>> Yes, so
we take a look at instruction fine-tuning,
so when you have your base model,
the thing that's initially pretrained,
it's encoded a lot of really good
information, usually about the world.
So it knows about things, but
it doesn't necessarily know how to be able
to respond to our prompts, our questions.
So when we instruct it
to do a certain task,
it doesn't necessarily
know how to respond.
And so instruction fine-tuning helps
it to be able to change its behavior
to be more helpful for us.
>> I thought instruction fine-tuning
was one of those major breakthroughs in
the really history of
large language models.
Because by learning off general text
off the Internet and other sources,
you learn to predict the next word.
By predicting what's the next word on
the Internet is not the same as following
instructions.
I thought it's amazing you can
take a large language model,
train it on hundreds of billions
of words off the Internet.
And then fine-tune it with a much smaller
data set on following instructions and
just learn to do that.
>> That's right and one of the things
you have to watch out for, of course,
is catastrophic forgetting and
this is something that we
talk about in the course.
So that's where you train the model on
some extra data in this insane instruct
fine-tuning.
And then it forgets all of that
stuff that it had before, or
a big chunk of that data
that it had before.
And so there are some techniques
that we'll talk about in
the course to help combat that.
Such as doing instruct fine-tuning
across a really broad range of
different instruction types.
So it's not just a case of just tuning
it on just the thing you want it to do.
You might have to be a little bit
broader than that as well, but
we talk about it in the course.
>> And so it turns out that there are two
types of fine-tuning that are very worth
doing.
One is that instruction fine-tuning
we just talked about, Mike.
And then when a specific developer
is trying to fine-tune it for
their own application, for
a specialized application.
One of the problems with fine-tuning
is you take a giant model and
you fine-tune every single
parameter in that model.
You have this big thing to
store around and deploy, and
it's actually very compute and
memory expansive.
So fortunately,
there are better techniques than that.
>> Right, and we talk about parameter
efficient fine-tuning or PEFT for short,
as a set of methods that can allow you to
mitigate some of those concerns, right?
So we have a lot of customers that
do want to be able to tune for
very specific tasks,
very specific domains.
And parameter efficient fine-tuning is
a great way to still achieve similar
performance results on a lot of tasks
that you can with full fine-tuning.
But then actually take advantage of
techniques that allow you to freeze those
original model weights.
Or add adaptive layers on top of that with
a much smaller memory footprint, right?
So that you can train for multiple tasks.
>> In fact, one of the techniques that
I know you've used a lot is LoRA.
I remember when I read the LoRA paper,
I thought, this just makes sense,
this is going to work.
>> Right, we see a lot of
excitement demand around LoRA
because of the performance
results of using
those low rank matrices as opposed
to full fine-tuning, right?
So you're able to get really good
performance results with minimal compute
and memory requirements.
>> So what I'm seeing among
different developers is many
developers will often start
off with prompting, and
sometimes that gives you good enough
performance and that's great.
And sometimes prompting hits
a ceiling in performance and
then this type of fine-tuning with LoRA or
other PEFT technique
is really critical for
unlocking that extra level performance.
And then the other thing I'm seeing
among a lot of OM developers
is a discussion debate about
the cost of using a giant model,
which is a lot of benefits versus for your
application fine-tuning a smaller model.
>> Exactly, full fine tuning
can be cost prohibitive, right?
To say the least so
the ability to actually be able to
use techniques like PEFT to put
fine-tuning generative AI models kind
of in the hands of everyday users.
That do have those cost constraints and
they're cost conscious,
which is pretty much everyone
in the real world, right?
>> That's right and of course,
if you're concerned about where
your data is going as well.
So if it needs to be
running in your control,
then having a model which is of
an appropriate size is really important.
>> And so, once again, tons of
exciting stuff to dive into this week.
Let's go on to the next video where Mike
will kick things off with instruction
fine-tuning.